Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning today we're talking about sparse adn cotters.
So as we previously discussed we are aiming to create an encoder where the hidden Lair is actually greater
than the input layer.
And the reason for that is we want to extract more features and we know that in colors our design is
a great feature extraction tool and the whole concept is pretty solid when we want our outputs to equate
to our inputs.
But in this case we want to extract more features than just three or just two or we want to text and
and an unrestricted amount of features.
And here what we're seeing is that basically as soon as we do that the art encoder can cheat it can
basically just take these inputs put them through the hidden layer and and put them as outputs and without
actually creating any valuable feature extraction tool within itself.
During a training process just because it's going to be easier for doubt and coder to do this.
And so we have to come up with a way to prevent it from doing that.
And the first way we're looking at is called the sparse or encoder.
And what I wanted to mention here is that you will hear sparse or Ann Coulter a lot like a lot a lot.
It is used everywhere or pretty much everywhere in literature and very often you will just hear sparser
and coater and people won't even explain why it's a sparser encoder quarter what that means.
And it just is sometimes even used interchangeably with an out and quarter as soon as you notice that
you have to be aware of what you're dealing with if you're dealing with not doubt and color that we're
working with before.
But this type of art and color and that's why this tutorial so important.
So what is a sparse art in color as sparser and color is an ordered color which looks like this where
the hidden layer is greater than the input Lehre but a regularisation technique which introduces sparsity
has been applied a regularisation technique basically means something that helps prevent overfitting
or stabilizes the algorithm in this case.
If it was just sending the values through it would be overfitting in you know in a way and therefore
we need regularisation techniques and this sparse out and is one of them.
And basically what it does is it just says it introduces a constraint on the last function or a penalty
in the last function and which doesn't allow the Ardern code to use all of its hidden layer every single
time.
So every time or any time any time at all so any at any time the outin code can only use a certain number
a number of nodes from its hidden lair for instance it can use two nodes in this case.
And so when the values go through these nodes are outputting very very small values so or very tiny
values which are not which are insignificant.
So in sound putting in significant values and therefore only these nodes are actually participating
then and then in another pass these knowability participate in other parts these nodes will be participating.
So you are extracting features.
The essence is that you are at the end of the day because you have so many rows in your data set that
are going through at the end of the day you are training this whole there so you are extracting features
from each one of these nodes through each one of these notes.
But at the same time not at at any given pass you're not using all of these so our encoder cannot cheat
because even though it has more nodes in the hidden lair than in the input layer it is not able to use
all of them at any given postes.
And that's how the spores are in code it works.
Pretty straightforward technique.
Of course it has mathematics behind it.
And we'll just now look through some further reading that you can do.
But in essence it's quite a simple idea quite a straightforward idea to still keep the size the large
size of the hidden lair but at the same time not allow the Aughton corner to bypass the proper training
that we wanted to undergo.
And that's that's what US posture our encounter is so whenever you hear splosh our own kowtows Just
remember that it's this kind of thing.
And in reality when you think about it it is still compressing the information.
But just every time it's using different notes.
OK.
So let's have a look at the additional reading so we've got a interesting Tauriel here by Chris McCormick.
It's called deep learning tutorial spots are and coater and this is a Matlab tutorial so if there's
any fans of matlab if you're a fan of Matlab you might find this interesting.
Who walks you through how to do it in matlab but other than that there's just I like it because there's
some introductory mathematics not too complex but some basic level formulas which allow you to gently
get introduced to the mathematics behind the sparse out and.
If you want to and understand how that whole how the equations work when we don't allow the R and quarter
to switch on all of its nose at old and at the same at any given point at any given past the next one
is called Deep learning sparse out in chorus by Eric Wilkinson.
It's a very short blog post on the essence of sparser and courters.
It's literally like a five to 10 minute read and just another gentle introduction to the world of sparse
our own cotters.
And finally a very strong powerful heavy artillery paper on sparse on its own in kowtows is called case
out and called her by Alireza.
Mike zuñi 2014 and it basically takes his whole sparse out and color concept to a whole new level where
it talks about different like a parameter K which allows you to control the sparsity of the out encoder
and you got some examples here on the right.
You might find this paper interesting if you want to learn more about parson courters actually would
encourage you to learn a bit more because it is a tool that is used all over the place and is constantly
mentioned so you will definitely come across sparser and coder's if you are going to be dealing with
Aaton cars.
OK so that's sparser and kowtows and I look farseeing and XM.
Until then enjoy learning.